There are many ways of
looking at scalability.
And we'll consider them as
we go forward in the course.
One way is to consider scaling up and
scaling out.
Simply put,
it is a decision between making a machine
that makes a server more powerful
versus adding more machines.
The first choice will
involve adding more memory,
replacing processes with
process of more course and
adding more processes within a system with
a very fast internet connection speed.
The second choice will involve adding more
machines to a relatively slower network.
Now, there are no absolutes here.
In many cases, we'll choose the former
to get more performance for
large leader systems.
The general trend in the big data world,
however, is to target
the scale out option.
Most big data management systems today
are designed to operate over
a cluster up machines and
have the ability to adjust as more
machines are added and when machines fail.
Cluster management and management
of data operations over a cluster
is an important component in today's
big data management systems.
Now we'll briefly touch upon
the complex issue of data security.
It is obvious that having more sensitive
data implies the need for more security.
If the data is within
the walls of an organization,
we'll still need a security plan.
However, if a big data system
is deployed in the cloud,
over multiple machines, security of
data becomes an even bigger challenge.
So now we need to ensure the security for
not only the machines,
but also the network which will be
heavily used during data transfer
across different phases
of data operations.
For example, if the data store and
the data analysis are performed over
different sets of servers that
every analysis operation gets to
an additional overhead of encrypting the
data as the data gets to the network and
decrypting when it gets
to the processing server.
This effectively increases
operational cost.
As of today, while there are many
security products, the methods for
ensuring security and achieving data
processing efficiency at the same time
remains a research issue
in big data management.